
# Lecture 1 #

First we checked the prerequesites:

- you must know how to download a python script from the internet and execute it
in a terminal. Check the appendix
<https://chrplr.github.io/PCBS/#resources-to-learn-the-command-shell> if you do
not; learn to use thes command 'pwd', 'ls' and 'cd', to navigate the filesystem
of your computer while in terminal.

Then, we worked on the section <https://chrplr.github.io/PCBS/#creating-static-visual-stimuli>. We programmed
the Kanisza square and the Hermann grid using the python library pygame

As an exercice for the next lecture, try to program the Ebbginhaus-Titchener
stimulus. (http://www.abc-people.com/illusion/illusion-3.htm#axzz5SqeF15yC). If
this is too easy, program the dynamic version
<https://chrplr.github.io/PCBS/#dynamic-version-of-the--ebbinghaus-titchener>

Recommended reading: Read <http://automatetheboringstuff.com/chapter3/> about
functions in Python. Check if you can answer the ""Practice Questions"" at the
end of the chasudo apt install udiskie
pter. If anythink is unclear, ask on the discussion forum on
Schoology.


# Lecture 2 #

Because of the demo for the climate, there is no formal lecture (but I will be
at the ENS from ~2pm, so you can come to get some help if needed, or just work
in the room on the exercices).

Read:
   - [Python Lists](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_lists.asp)
   - [List comprehensions](https://www.pythonforbeginners.com/basics/list-comprehensions-in-python)
   - if you have time, read <https://automatetheboringstuff.com/chapter4/>

Then, try and do some of the exercices posted at
<https://chrplr.github.io/PCBS/exercices.html> and send me your code. This will
give me an idea of your individual levels. (Note: You can ask for help on the
'forum' discussion. (I'll try to answer, but I encourage anybody who knows the
response to also help on the forum)).


# Lecture 3 #

* You should have tried to program the Ebbginhaus-Titchener stimulus after
lectuere 1. Did you succeed? Compare your code with my solution at
<https://chrplr.github.io/PCBS/visual-illusions/ebbinghaus.py>. Any question?

* Check the proposed solutions to exercices of lecture 2 at
  <https://github.com/chrplr/PCBS/blob/master/solutions-to-exercices/exercices2-solutions.pdf>
  and in the folder
  <https://github.com/chrplr/PCBS/tree/master/solutions-to-exercices>.

* Read
<http://programarcadegames.com/index.php?lang=en&chapter=introduction_to_animation>
to understand how to move objects on the screen with pygame. (The basic idea is
to redraw the screen every few milliseconds), then try to program the dynamic
visual illusions at
<https://chrplr.github.io/PCBS/#creating-dynamic-visual-stimuli>

* Read about the detection of mouse button press in pygame at
  <https://lorenzod8n.wordpress.com/2007/05/30/pygame-tutorial-3-mouse-events/>,
  then try to program the simple reaction time experiment described at
  <https://chrplr.github.io/PCBS/#simple-reaction-times>


## GiT and Markdown

* During lecture 3, we saw :

- how to create a repository on github.com

- how to clone it locally on the computer (using the command 'git clone' in a terminal "Git Bash" under Windows),

- add files to track with 'git add',

- create a snapshot of the files with 'git commit'

- save a copy on github with 'git push'.

All this is explained in part#1 and part#2 of https://openclassrooms.com/en/courses/2342361-gerez-votre-code-avec-git-et-github

To learn more about git and github, check out the links in the appendix of the course's home page.

* We also saw that the README.md file at the root of the repository can be written using the Markdown markup language.

It is important that you learn how to write in markdown (it is super easy), using a text editor (atom, sublimetext, ...). Check out https://www.markdowntutorial.com/

